ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST OFFENCES (COMPOUNDING AND PROSECUTION) RULES, 1969
ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST OFFENCES (COMPOUNDING AND
PROSECUTION) RULES, 1969
PREAMBLE
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 68 of the Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967 (Act No. 1 of
1967), and all other powers hereunto enabling the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following
rules:--

Rule - 1.
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Forest Oﬀences (Compounding and Prosecution) Rules,
1969.
Rule - 2.
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires:--
(a) "accused" means any person who committed or in respect of whom It may be reasonably inferred that
he has committed a forest oﬀence;
(b) "form" means a form appended to these rules.
Rule - 3.
(i) When a forest oﬀence is booked it shall be dealt with in the manner hereinafter provided.
(ii) The Forest produce seized may be kept in the safe custody of the Forest Guard or Forest Watcher and
a certificate to that eﬀect shall be obtained in Form-C
(iii) The respect of seizure of forest produce shall be submitted immediately, to the next superior oﬃcer
as well as Divisional Forest Oﬃcer as prescribed in Form-B
Rule - 4.
An enquiry into a forest oﬀence shall be held by an Oﬃcer not below the rank of a Ranger.
Rule - 5.
Every accused who expressed his willingness to have the oﬀence compounded as provided in rule 4 shall
forthwith give a written undertaking in that regard in Form D
Rule - 6.
If, Immediately after the oﬀence is detected or at the time of enquiry, the accused is willing to pay in
advance any amount towards compensation to be fixed under Section 59 of the Act, any Forest Oﬃcer not
below the rank of a Forester, may accept such amount and shall issue a receipt duly signed by him for
the amount so received
Provided that the acceptance of any amount as aforesaid shall be without prejudice to any decision that
may be taken by the competent authority under these rules in regard to the quantum of compensation or
(Page 1 of 3) Printed For: 11-02-2026 at 04:05:PM
ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST OFFENCES (COMPOUNDING AND PROSECUTION) RULES, 1969
the necessity or otherwise to compound the oﬀence.
Rule - 7.
Any property seized from an accused shall not be released immediately on receipt of the amount of
advance compensation paid by him under rule 6 but shall be retained with the forest oﬃcer concerned
until an order in this behalf issued by the competent authority under rule 8, is received by him.
Rule - 8.
Where the accused gives an undertaking as specified In rule 5, In the case of:--
(i) all the forest oﬀences, the Divisional Forest Oﬃcer or the Sub-Divisional Forest Oﬃcer;
(ii) all the forest oﬀences where the value of the forest produce involved does not exceed Rs. 500, the
Ranger shall be competent to compound the oﬀence under Section 59 by passing an order in this behalf.
Every order so passed shall be in Form 'E' and shall be communicated to the accused immediately on
such passing.
(iii) However, Forest Range Oﬃcers shall not compound any oﬀence involving fast moving motorised
vehicles, Sandal wood and Red Sanders.
Rule - 9.
Every Oﬃcer competent to compound the oﬀence may refuse to compound an oﬀence in any particular
case without assigning any reasons
Provided that where the competent oﬃcer refuses to compound an oﬀence, the amount that has been
received towards advance compensation from the accused under the rule 6 shall be arranged to be
refunded to him by such oﬃcer by passing a suitable order in this behalf.
Rule - 10.
(1) Any person aggrieved by an order passed by an oﬃcer under rule 8 may prefer an appeal, within
fifteen days from the date of receipt of such order, to the Sub-Divisional Forest Oﬃcer and where there is
no such Sub-Divisional Forest Oﬃcer, to the Divisional Forest Oﬃcer, in case such order is passed by a
Ranger and to the Conservator, in case such order is passed by Sub-Divisional Forest Oﬃcer or Divisional
Forest Oﬃcer, and the order passed thereon by the appellate authority shall be final.
(2) The appellate authority referred to in sub-rule (1) may, where no appeal is preferred within the period
specified in that sub-rule against any order passed under rule 8, call for and examine the record of such
order so as to satisfy itself as to the legality, propriety and regularity of such order and may pass such
order in relation thereto as it may deem fit:
Provided that the appellate authority shall not enhance the amount of compensation payable by the
accused unless an opportunity of making his representation against such enhancement is given to him.
Rule - 11.
(1) The amount of compensation fixed under rule 8 shall be paid by the person concerned within one
month from the date of receipt by him of the order compounding the oﬀence.
(Page 2 of 3) Printed For: 11-02-2026 at 04:05:PM
ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST OFFENCES (COMPOUNDING AND PROSECUTION) RULES, 1969
(2) In case the amount of compensation so fixed is not paid in full within the period aforesaid, action to
recover the same may be taken as provided under Section 70 of the Act.
Rule - 12.
In case the value of forest produces, seized is less than Rs. 7,500 and where the accused does not opt
for compounding the oﬀence, or the competent authority does not choose to compound the oﬀences the
Forest Range Oﬃcer may order the prosecution of the accused. In all other cases, where the accused
does not opt for compounding the oﬀence or the competent authority does not choose to compound the
oﬀence, the Sub-Divisional Forest Oﬃcer, Managers of Primary Marketing Societies under the administrative
control of Girijan Co-operative Corporation Limited or the Divisional Forest Oﬃcer may order the
prosecution of the accused.
Rule - 13.
Where an order of prosecution is passed under rule 12, a Forest Oﬃcer not below the rank of a Forester
authorised in this behalf or the Manager of a Primary Marketing Society, under the administrative control
of the Girijan Co-operative Corporation Ltd., the oﬃcer so authorised or such Manager of the Primary
Marketing Society, under the administrative control of the Girijan Cooperative Corporation Ltd., as the case
may be shall file a charge-sheet in Form-E before the Magistrate having jurisdiction, or the Authorised
Oﬃcer.
(Page 3 of 3) Printed For: 11-02-2026 at 04:05:PM